Why Web Pages Should Sport More Minimalist Themes
Have you ever experienced customizing your own web page or website before? Did you ever over-customize it to the point that every corner has widgets, clickable links, ads, and other unnecessary but “cute” stuff?

Yes, we’ve all probably been there. Over-customizing our web pages to make it look as “cool” as possible. However, in the year 2019, “cool” does not mean widgets, links, and ads galore anymore. In today’s time, almost everyone, if not all, would prefer minimalist-themed web designs for their websites.

Minimalist-themed designs are those that use neutral colors (white, black, or gray as much as possible). Aside from that, widget appearance is decreased to little to no widgets at all. This is because millennials want everything as clean and as neat as possible. Also, having a minimalist-themed web page requires that your content is straight to the point. No more unnecessary ads or links irrelevant to your website’s goals or identity. This is the “new age” of web design – sporting minimalist-themed web pages.

Lots of web design companies nowadays offer elegant themes that could pass up as minimalist designs. Knowing how to create minimalist templates for varying customers. In the modern age, which do you prefer most? Do you want to stick to the old days by adding all-over-the-place widgets, ads, and links to your profile or adopt a new, minimalist-themed design? Here are a few things to consider why web pages should sport more minimalist themes:

Attention to Detail
When sporting minimalist-themed web pages, designers usually use negative space. This is a common concept when it comes to minimal websites. With negative space, more attention is drawn to detail or towards what’s left on the page. In most cases, that may be the main star of the webpage, which could be a company’s product or service.

Easier Navigation
Since your page doesn’t contain too many widgets, tabs, links, or ads, it’ll be easier for users to navigate through your whole website. What if they’re in a hurry? They don’t have the time to look for a specific tab or detail like your contact information or products and services review. When there’s nothing much to click, users’ eyes are drawn more on large photos of your products or services and the text describing it. Plain, simple, and straight to the point.

Timeless Design
When you opt for a minimalist-themed web page, chances are, you can keep that design for years. Since you’re not using elements, widgets, or other models that are complete eye-catchers, you wouldn’t feel intimidated by other web pages starting to revamp their sites with a new design because minimal web pages are considered timeless. Its style lives on forever, and it can never be outdated. Instead of spending so much on redesigning your web page every now and then, you remain cost-efficient because you only rely on high-quality images and the right type of font for your text when trying to send a message to your users.

Fewer Problems
This is simple. When you don’t add too much widgets or applications to the entirety of your website, then you’re most likely to encounter fewer problems. A web page with a minimal design is less likely to crash. So you see, you don’t only get to save cash but time as well!

Higher Chance of Web Traffic
Web pages that don’t contain a lot of things load faster than web pages with too much on its plate. According to research, users are most likely to click out of a website when it takes too long to load (longer than 3-4 seconds). So, if you put less unnecessary content, you can definitely gain more traffic.

Wrapping Up
Optimizing a minimalist-themed web page can bring you more positive impacts and fewer headaches. In fact, you can never go wrong with plain, neat, and simple web designs. Aside from being timeless, you’re also helping users to access and locate your web page without a sweat.